We can think of deployment as a set of activities that make a piece of software available for other users. Before the invention of the internet, deployment looked like storing software on floppy disks or CD-ROMs, shipping them to users, and having those users manually install the software on their own devices. This process was slow and expensive, and many bugs slipped through the cracks. Today, software can be deployed via the internet with greater ease and speed of delivery than ever before.

Before an application can be deployed, several steps must occur. For example, for our e-commerce application, we likely spent a large chunk of time planning features, writing code, and testing that the code works. These steps are part of a process known as the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). The SDLC is a structured cycle of steps used to create high-quality software. 

Planning: This first phase of the SDLC involves defining the problem to solve, and any objectives or requirements the software should meet are gathered.
Defining/Analysis: After developing a solid plan, information must be gathered before software engineers can create the new software. This could include defining what resources (like hardware or network) will be needed to run a prototype of the software or even research to find existing or similar software.
Design: In this phase, the technical details of the project are designed. The requirements gathered in the planning phase are transformed into concrete specifications.
Development/Implementation: The software starts to come alive within this stage as the code is built. This is when code is written to meet the specifications and goals of the software.
Testing/Integration: Testing is a crucial step in the SDLC. This step confirms that all of the software components are working seamlessly together. Any major issues or bugs are ideally caught during this stage prior to the application reaching the hands of the users.
Deployment: In this phase, a version of the software is packaged and made available so it can be used by other members of the development team (e.g., QA engineers), non-development team members (e.g., project managers), or real users. During the deployment process, the software can be tried out on different environments, like, for example, a testing environment only available to beta users (more on this later).
Maintenance: Lastly, once the software is out in the world, it is crucial to maintain it. This phase involves fixing bugs, as well as the continued development of new features. Any changes follow the same SDLC cycle of defining the problem (bug/feature), designing a solution, implementing the fix, testing, and deployment.

The local development environment: This is where software is first written and tested, typically on a developer’s own computer.
The staging environment: This is where the software can be tested in a production-like environment, but before real users are involved.
The production environment: This is where software is accessible by real users!

Once the code is properly tested in the staging environment, it can be deployed into the production environment. The deployment at this stage is typically also referred to as the software release, where it becomes available for non-development team users.

One popular type of cloud-based deployment solution is called a Platform as a Service (PaaS). A PaaS is an all-in-one platform for building, deploying, and managing applications over the internet. A PaaS often uses a set of assumptions about the things most software teams need as a way of simplifying the complex task of setting up infrastructure. This allows developers to no longer have to focus on setting up and managing resources and infrastructure on their own. Most PaaS providers offer an easy-to-use user interface that lets developers tweak the setup to meet their application’s needs. They typically charge a per-usage fee to utilize their infrastructure, but some offer free, resource-limited tiers.

Render is a popular PaaS product that handles the building and deployment of code and provides the resources necessary to host various applications and services. By using Render for deployment, we can quickly deploy a running prototype of an application to potential users. Render supports several different programming languages, including Python, Ruby, and Javascript. Render also offers other features such as managed databases, static site hosting, and integration with popular developer tools like GitHub and Slack.